.\" Manpage for fpm.
.TH man 8 "13 May 2013" "1.0" "fpm man page"
.SH NAME
fpm \- find perl modules required by WebObs cgi-bins
.SH SYNOPSIS
fpm CGIDIR
.SH DESCRIPTION
fpm will scan CGIDIR directory of WebObs perl scripts, with the help of \fBscandeps.pl\fP, 
to statically discover the perl modules needed by perl scripts (mainly cgi-bin): ie. 
scandeps with option -R (Only show dependencies found in the files listed and do not recurse).

Output from fpm will be located in CGIDIR itself as \fBout-scandeps\fP and \fBout-scandeps-p\fP 
files. out-scandeps will be used as a reference list by the WebObs installation 
procedure (install). 

scandeps.pl has been found available in	perl-Module-ScanDeps (rpm) and 
libmodule-scandeps-perl (deb).
.SH OPTIONS
No option, but the CGIDIR full path must be supplied.
.SH SEE ALSO
scandeps.pl, install 
.SH AUTHOR
Francois Beauducel, Didier Lafon
.SH COPYRIGHT
Webobs - 2012 - Institut de Physique du Globe Paris

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

