.\" Manpage for packit.
.TH man 8 "13 May 2013" "1.0" "packit man page"
.SH NAME
packit \- creates a WebObs release package file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
packit SVN-TAG-REPOSITORY
.SH DESCRIPTION
SVN-TAG-REPOSITORY being of the form <svn-repo-path>/webobs/tags/releasename,
packit will create \fBWebObs-releasename.tgz\fP and its corresponding checksum files.

packit first svn-export the requested releasename from svn repository to a local (current directory)
WebObs-releasename directory from which it will 1) remove internal code and files not to be
distributed in final package and 2) creates, if possible, a list of perl required modules
that could be used during the WebObs installation process.

.SH OPTIONS
No command line option, but the SVN-TAG-REPOSITORY is required.
.SH SEE ALSO
fpm, tagit, install
.SH AUTHOR
Didier Lafon
.SH COPYRIGHT
Webobs - 2012 - Institut de Physique du Globe Paris

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

