.\" Manpage for setup.
.TH WebObs "10 Dec 2013" "1.1" "setup man page"
.SH NAME
setup \- setup WebObs. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
 # <WebObs-directory>/<WebObs-releasename>/SETUP/setup [OPTIONS] [|tee logfile4support-name]
.SH OPTIONS
 -f, --force         show but ignore errors
 -q, --quiet         be less verbose
 -h, --help          this help text
.SH WEBOBS DIRECTORIES STRUCTURE
root user must first create <\fBWebObs-directory\fP>, copy the \fBWebObs-releasename.tgz\fP to be installed and run  
a 'tar \fBWebObs-releasename.tgz -xf\fP' command.

Layout of the WebObs directory as created or updated/checked by \fBsetup\fP

 webobs-directory/
     WebObs-releasename/
        CODE/
        DOC/
        SETUP/
     CODE -> WebObs-releasename/CODE
     DOC -> WebObs-releasename/DOC
     CONF/
     DATA/
     OUTG/
     OUTR/
     WWW/
     WebObs-releasename.tgz

 /etc/webobs.d is a symbolic link to <\fBWebObs-directory\fP>/CONF
.SH DESCRIPTION
You must have root privileges to run the setup script from within the <\fBWebObs-directory\fP> .
\fBsetup\fP will setup <WebObs-directory> from templates and system information, user dialogs and indications
on how to proceed with further customizations. It is thus intended to build a 'minimal/starter/default' WebObs environment.

\fBsetup\fP will check wether you already have WebObs installed on your system and install or update WebObs accordingly
(automatic selection of 'install' or 'create' mode). When in 'update' mode, existing Apache VHost configuration, DATA/ and CONF/ contents will 
not be updated (preserving your own customizations since your previous WebObs install), but will be compared
to what the new WebObs release would deliver in case of new WebObs install.

\fBsetup\fP major steps:

  1) discover your system in terms of architecture, distro and existing WebObs if any 
  2) check for basic software dependencies and recommend the corresponding installations; also check for
     Perl modules dependencies when possible
  3) determine/query WebObs-user and create it if necessary
  4) update OR create the WebObs CONF/ directory. When updating, setup checks/reports 
     on changes from previous installed release (reports in SETUP.CONF.README file).
 	 When creating, use default CONF/ files and create relationnal DBs with user's 
 	 pre-existing files contents when possible/requested: legacy operators.conf for USERS table,
 	 legacy DISCIPLINES.conf for DOMAINS table
  5) when installing, creates the Apache's authorization file (.htusers), importing 
     an existing one if requested by user.
  6) update or create the WebObs DATA/ directory. When updating, setup only
     checks/reports for WebObs default files present in new release but missing from
 	 existing WebObs. When creating DATA/ is populated with default WebObs data (matching default CONF/)
  7) WebObs LOGS/ and WWW/ directories creation if needed
  8) WebObs OUTG/ and OUTR/ directories creation (OUTG/ may contain default data)
  9) Create (or re-define if user accepts) the Apache default configuration file: 
     basically a VirtualHost definition (vhost named 'webobs') with WebObs DocRoot, Aliases,
 	 default logging, authorization checking (see .htusers above).
 10) When creating, best effort to create the 'non-DocumenRoot' structures (sefran and rawdata directories)
 11) Linux owners, groups and files attributes definitions (or reassessment if user permits)

.SH AFTER SETUP
Carefully review \fBsetup\fP execution log and the SETUP.CONF.README file.

You (as a system administrator) may want to review configurations to match your local constraints and requirements.

\fBsetup\fP does NOT automatically start WebObs background processes (ie. the WebObs daemons: scheduler, postboard) NOR does it (re)start
the WebObs Apache Virtual Host. You must run the corresponding commands to bring up a fully operationnal WebObs environment.

The default Apache VirtualHost as defined by \fBsetup\fP (in install mode) has 'ServerName webobs' with no SSL definitions. 

.SH AUTHOR
Didier Lafon
.SH COPYRIGHT
Webobs - 2012/2013 - Institut de Physique du Globe Paris

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

